Can you tell me about your early life, where and
when you were born, your family, that sort of
thing? I was born April 28, 1916, in Sutton County,
Texas. Sonora is a county seat. My parents lived on
a ranch. And so my early years were spent there.
What was your ranch's name? What? What was the
ranch's name? The ranch? Well, my father was W.W.
Williamson, and we didn't have a name for the
ranch. But he ranched there for about 35 years. Do
you have any brothers and sisters? Yes. I have one
sister and three brothers.
Can you tell me about your education and the jobs
you've held?
Actually, I started the school in Sonora. And at
that time, I guess the age to start was six years
old. But we were the closest house to the school. My
mother became a great friend of the first grade
teacher. And I was the only one at home. So the
teacher would tell my mother what she was doing
with the class at school and let her have the books
and all. So my mother had been a teacher, so she
taught me. So that's how I got such an early start at
age five. And when I was six at the end of April, she
told my mother to let me come on to school that I was
six then. So I really was in school. less than a
year, but she promoted me. And so, my mother talked
with the superintendent to see if I should start
back through the first grade, but he said it wasn't
important that I could handle the work, so I just
went on from there. So that made me graduate early,
and graduate early from college. I've been 16 less
than a month, and I graduated from high school. 20
less a month when I graduated from college. And
I've been about it during high school. I don't
know.
We moved from the ranch in Sutton County in, I
guess, 1928.
and uh my mother yeah my mother had um maintained
two homes while we were in school in sonora i
finished the seventh grade there and uh she
decided that she was just not gonna do that anymore
she never learned to drive so she couldn't drive in
this school so uh who moves the ranch in our county.
I was in eighth grade when I was 12. And there's a big
question about how was I going to get to school,
because there weren't any school buses yet. So I
said, well, I'd love to ride a horse, so I'll just
ride. My dad said, well, I want you to understand,
if you say you're going to ride, you're going to
ride rain or shine. And he meant it. And they got me
this rain slipper that buckled around each leg.
And I rode seven miles to school. seven miles back,
14 mile run trip. Quite an experience. Kind of lost
my love of horseback riding. How long did it take?
As I remember, it was about 30 minutes. But my
mother was always afraid I was going to kill the
horse because I ran it all the way both ways.
And it was quite an experience if it was cold and
icy. Winters were colder back then. And Anyway, I
survived. Don't think I was even sick that year.
Did he ever, like, throw you or give you trouble?
The first day I rode to school, he'd never been
around that many people. I don't know, it's not
read straight up, but I stayed on. And his worst
habit was, I guess his worst, when there was a
thunderstorm. Of course, I had to hitch him to a
tree, and he whined around the tree. pull his head
back and break the bridle and take off. So I used to
have to hunt him all the time after a storm. And he
had a bad habit of, he got excited, he'd run away
with me. But anyway, as I say, I survived it and that
was the only year that I had the right. Next year, my
sister taught that school because she graduated
from college and The fellow she was to marry had one
more year in Texas. And so she taught that school
and of course she drove us. You don't know about the
next year when I was 14.
My parents bought me a little green Ford Sport
Roadster with a rumble seat. And I drove 23 miles
into school in Menard. over dirt roads, which
meant if it rained I'd get stuck sometimes. And
they tell me that I drove a little speedy because I
wanted to get there to play tennis before school
started. And I played late in the afternoon after
school was out. My mother always insisted I get
home by dark. So that was my junior year. What else
do we need to know? Do you have any curfews? Any
what? Curfews. Besides, you know, being home by
dark. Oh. Well. It kind of drove my mother crazy
because there was always some event I needed to be
there for in the evenings. And so she finally
decided that my senior year she would let us have an
apartment in this little town. So I wouldn't be on
the road at all times if not.
Then
you went on to the University of Texas? Yeah. You
know, this is just a small school. I think there
were 36 in my class. And you were valedictorian? I
was valedictorian. My mother had been a teacher,
and it just sort of ran in the family of my oldest
sister. My oldest sister, actually. She was
valedictorian. And then my next brother was
salutatorian. My mother was very disappointed in
him. The next brother was valedictorian. He
graduated the day he was 16. And unfortunately, he
died one week before he was to go to college. He was
around four years older than I. That's something
that nobody would die of now, because he'd been
hurt going to help a neighbor fight a
fire. And then you went on to college when you were
16? Yeah, but see, we didn't have any counselors or
anything. This is a very small school. Anyway, I
guess I should have, my husband would have said I
should have majored in home ed because I didn't
have a lot of those skills. But instead of that, I
picked something less practical. Anyway, so I go
to the University of Texas. Freshman, 16 years
old. Stayed in Little Field on. And the
interesting thing about that that I learned many,
many years later George Littlefield was one of the
biggest benefactors of the University of Texas.
Of course, I didn't just live in Littlefield Dorm.
It didn't mean much to me. Walked past Littlefield
Home on the way to campus.
The statues that are on the campus there were put
there with Littlefield money. The big fountain
with the bronze horses. It's Littlefield
Fountain. Found out many years later that at one
time, he owned a ranch that I grew up on. uh, in an
abstract which I didn't realize that had a copy of
George Littlefield's will in one of the abstracts
of the rank. But anyway, uh, What do you know about
school women? So you went to UT in 1938? No, I went
there in 1932. Were there a lot of women there
during that time? Oh, there wasn't any total
enrollment. As I remember it, it was about 6,500
when I went there. And when I graduated, I think
there were about 2,000 more. So, like A&M, you
know, it had just grown beyond everybody's
expectations. And I think it's quite different
than what it is now. If we had a date or anything, we
had to sign out and had to sign in. We had strict
hours and Anyway, at the end of that freshman year,
I was elected back on the upper class council. They
were elected back about 12 girls, two, sort of like
the RAs now, I suppose, the bachelors, the
freshmen. And
I stayed there that year. I was president of Dawn. I
don't know why, but somebody stuck me with that.
And then I was elected back again, so I stayed in the
freshman girls' dorm for three years. And then my
last year, my senior year, I stayed in Charlotte.
And you graduated in 1936? I graduated in 36. You
were a 20? I've been 20 less than a month. So, you
know, it was not to my advantage to graduate that
young because it was kind of hard to get a job
teaching, which I did one whole year. Um, you said,
we're going to get to teaching in a minute. I had
various activities, I don't know what all, but I
served on student government two years. It was
called Student Assembly over there. From the
College of Education, or School of Education,
whichever it was. You said your husband said you
should have taken homemaking. Why do you say that?
Oh, yes, yes. Why do you say that? Because I
couldn't cook. And he was from a family of boys, and
his mother had been a real good cook. And... We're
getting ahead of ourselves. Actually, I don't
remember ever being introduced to Earl Rudder. My
older brother, so there's six years difference in
our ages, and my older brother had been at Tarleton
when Earl was. And I sort of had my eye on him from
looking at the angles. It was strange. In fact, I
was no more than maybe 11 years old when I took note
of him. And he was a big football player, the
captain and all that. This little town, Minari.
And see, I lived 23 miles from there. But they had a
hotel that had the whole top floor was ballroom. It
had the best dances. And that's where I first met
her. We started dancing together. I was my
brother's sister. I knew who he was. And right
after college, you taught for one year? I got the
job. He came down. my senior year, earlier. We'd
been dating for a couple years already. Only when
he was, when I was home from school. And so he came
down and said I would apply in Brady. All my friends
went to Houston to preach, but I got the job in
Brady. And I taught one year, and that was
depression. And they had a rule that they wouldn't
hire a married teacher. Of course, I made the
fantastic sum of $900 for the entire year. $100 a
month, and you taught nine months, and that's all
you got paid. And I was so young, and I guess full of
pep, that I was sponsored for everything they had.
I was sponsored by the ball club, and I never... I
played a game. That was before school, 7.30 in the
morning. And then I sponsored the cap squad after
school. And then I sponsored senior class. So it
was kind of a busy year. And anyway, We waited until
I was re-elected for another year before letting
the board know that we planned to get married. And
Earl told them that I would be glad to teach if they
saw fit to change the rules. But they didn't change
it. They just let me be the chief substitute. And it
wouldn't matter a whole lot because we were just
there one more year. And then he was made football
coach. See he was a football coach when I married
him. He was made football coach at Tarleton. So
that was 1938. So we go to Tarleton and as I told him
last fall when he was named Distinguished Alumnus
up there, the first one they had named
posthumously. in my remarks i told him that he was
doubly glad to get that job because in the first
place he made 30 a month more than he'd made
coaching in high school and the next reason was he
could put me in back in school and have cook which he
did did he really oh yeah of course he thought i was
sorry strange because i had grown up on a ranch and
did not have a milk with cow dress of chicken But
cooking, he just couldn't forgive that. And I
think the last straw was when he told me once that he
thought because I'd grown up on the ranch that I
surely know how to cook a pot of red beans. So he told
me that day, he said, I'm so hungry for a good pot of
red beans. And I thought, OK. So I went to the
grocery store and bought five pounds, came home,
and put them all on the cook. And they just had to do
everything in my kitchen. So with that, he decided
he better let me have some fame in hometown. So I
guess it's helped a lot. Where'd you get your
training at? That was at Tarleton's. He was
football coach there. So he just put me in school.
And he was from Brady? He was born in Brady? No, he
was born in Eden, which is... very small it's a one
traffic light crown to this day and that's where he
was born there are two pictures in the high school
in eden one is a general ira acre he was head of the uh
all our air forces in european theater and in
earl's picture so i guess they're still there i
haven't been there in a long time but the last time i
was there anyone said that he helped pay his way to
charlton by milking a cow he he paid his entire
education except for five dollars his mother gave
him seeing his dad really didn't want him to go to
college because he said see earl had made his own
money from the time he was seven years old and doing
one thing another selling door-to-door very soon
and then the time he was going in high school, he was
working in a drug store. And his dad said, I think
it'd be foolish for you to go to college because
you're making more money now than I was when I
married your mother. But the coach, the football
coach at Carlton had been through this a little
time. And his doctor had lunch at a little cafe
there. And he said to the owner, he said, do you have
any good football players around here? He said,
well, we got one. He said, it's rubber. So he looked
him up. It didn't take him long to find him. The town
was so tiny. And so I have this and a letter that this
coach wrote to me three years after my husband's
death. But he told Earl, he said, if you'll come and
play football, he said, we'll find a way for you to
get through school. Of course, they didn't make,
they didn't give them anything, you know, for
playing. I said, well, they didn't have the free
use of the uniform. That was just about it.
He got a job waiting tables in the college dining
room. And he's still running kind of short of
money. And so he got a job at a drug store that was
just across the campus. So he was working those two
jobs. And at the end of his first year, he was
elected captain for the following year. And so the
next fall, he started out with his two jobs. He was
still having just a rough time. He just didn't
think he could get by on what he was making. So he
went to see a coach one day right at lunchtime to
tell him that he was going to have to go home, but he
just couldn't make it. Coach said, oh, Rudder
said, just go on, and I'm getting ready to go to
Lions Club, and you have to come back after lunch,
and I'll talk to you. So when he got to Lions Club, he
told the membership, he said, look, we've got to
figure out some way to keep him in school. He said,
I'm about to lose my captain. And so you just see
what we can do to help him. So they decided to buy a
Jersey milk cow. And they let him graze it around
the football field and milk it and sell the milk to
the dining hall. And they still laugh up there and
say that the first day he took his bucket to the
dining hall to sell it, it wasn't quite full. So
they didn't pay him what he thought he was going to
get. So the next day when he dealt the cow, he was on
the way to the dining hall with the milk. Just
happened to notice there was a water faucet. He
said from then on he always drived full bucket. I
guess that's true. That's a
good story. Okay. So you met General Rutter when he
was a junior in college? No, you were a junior in
college and he was already a coach? No, I was a
freshman in college, and he was coaching today.
But his first year out of A&M, times were so tough
then. And he did all kinds of things to get through
A&M. See, he came down here for his last two years.
Graduated here in 1932. But he couldn't get a job
except for one with a highway department. They
were building a road between Eden and Menard. And
he was, his first year out of A&M with his degree, he
took a job digging ditches for 25 cents an hour. And
then the next fall, he got the job coaching the
baby. When did we get married? We got married in
1937, see? I had finished Texas in 36, taught that
one year in Brady. And then we married in 1936. And
in 1941, he got off into the war, 1940? Yeah. We had
our first child. in Stephenville, in 40. And when
he was just about a year old, maybe a month or two
after he was a year old, he was called into the
service. Because, see, he got his reserve
permission when he graduated from A&M. And he was
first sent to Fort St. Houston. And from there to
infantry school in Fort Benning and then back to
Fort St. Houston. Then to the 83rd Division up in
Camp Atterbury, Indiana. By then we had a second
child, that was 1942. Were you following him
along? Oh yeah, until he went overseas.
So anyway, we lived in all kinds of places. People
would not believe, it would just sound like a crazy
story if I mentioned how we had lived in some of
those places. But you did what you had to do. And so
he went overseas in November of 1943.
And so when he went overseas, I had to bring the two
children and come back home. And so we came back to
stay in Brady because his brother and his And back
in 35, he was responsible for putting in a
drugstore in Brady, which he and his brother all
played together. And then my parents would be just
36 miles from me. They could be a lot of help and
worry. So we stayed there during the war. And you
had two children? I had two children. We were in two
years apart. Well, the first one was a son named
James Earl Rudder, Jr., but they always called him
Bud. The next one was Anne, the
daughter. So during the war, you and the children
went back home? Stayed in David, uh-huh. Until he
came
home? Yeah. What about his actions during the war?
Can you tell me about those? Actually, when he was
in the 83rd Division at Camp Atterbury in Indiana,
the War Department decided that all divisions
should put in some ranger training. So they put him
in charge of that. And General Friedendahl went
around the country looking at all the divisions
and inspecting a program for ranger training, and
he decided that that was the best. And so he named
Earl to command the second ranger battalion, the
first had been formed, commanded by General
Darby. And he did not come back from war. He was
killed late in the war. And Earl commanded the
second ranger battalion, Camp Forest,
Tennessee, trained there, and then took them
overseas. And they trained in England,
in Cornwall. They had cliffs there. When he found
out what their mission was, it was really a tough
one. And so they trained in Cornwall, and they
trained some on the Isle of Wight. And their
mission was to... climb these 100-foot cliffs in
Normandy, Pointe du Hoc, and knock out the six
155-millimeter guns that the Germans had placed
there that could fire on Utah and Omaha beaches.
When the soldiers came across. What? When the
soldiers came across the beaches. Oh, yeah, when
they landed. They were to knock out these guns so
the soldiers could land on those two beaches.
because his point jutted out right between the two
beaches. And everybody thought it was sort of a
suicide mission, that there's no way to take a dip.
And General Bradley, in his book, A Soldier's
Story, describes it as the most difficult
assignment he ever gave a soldier in his entire
career. And so, for the D-Day mission, Earl was
given command of not only the 2nd, but the 5th
battalion. He could command both of them for the
invasion. And so there were only three companies
out of the 2nd that went up the cliffs, D, E, and F.
And the other companies, A and B, they landed on
other parts of the invasion beaches. And he
handpicked 225 men for this mission. And at the end
of the first day, there were only 90 able to bear
arms.
The way this mission was planned, timing was
everything. The battleship in the Channel,
Battleship St. Channels, were lobbing shells
over onto the Pointe du Hôte. And at this point in
time, they would stop shelling because at that
time, the range was supposed to be at the foot of the
cliff. But as it happened, when they were loaded
off the ships that brought them across the channel
into their small landing craft. They were
assigned a British guide boat. And this British
guide boat took them off course. There was another
point that looked very similar, but it was about
four miles to the east, at least four miles, maybe
further. And so it didn't take long for my husband
to realize that they were headed for the wrong
point. And he kept trying to tell this British
guide boat that they were headed for the wrong
point, but they ignored it. And finally, he had
just take command of his own little bunch of
landing craft and turn them to the west toward the
proper point, which meant, see, if they had gone in
on time, the Germans would have been driven
underground because they had a vast, array of
underground tunnels. They couldn't stay up on the
top with all the shelling. So if they could have
been there at the proper time, the Germans would
have been totally surprised. But at the time that
they were supposed to be there, the shelling quit.
And yet they were far from being there, and the seas
were very rough. I think the waves were at least six
feet high. And so they had to come along parallel to
the coastline. And the Germans by then had had
time, they were about 40 minutes late, had had time
to come out of the underground And so they were on
top of the cliff waiting for them. They were firing
at them, and they were cutting the ropes that they
were climbing up. See, the way they would get up
those cliffs, they had grappling hooks attached
to ropes that they would fire by rocket off their
little landing craft. dig into the soil. I'm not
saying it's very good. And then they'd find these
ropes, and then they had some rope ladders that
they had. And they also had some, my husband had
borrowed some ladders from the fire department in
London, and they were in sections. They put those
together and put up on the face of the cliff. But
anyway, as I say, it was unfortunate that the It
couldn't have gone off on time, but it was not the
fault of the rangers, it was the fault of the
Buddhist guide boat. But anyway, they were up
there then, and it denied them their
reinforcements that they were to have had. If they
didn't get the signal that they were up on the
cliffs by a certain time, then the rest of the
second and fifth battalions would land on Omaha
Beach, which they did. And then they'd have to
fight over land to get to the ranges where it
pointed to Hope. So it was not until two and a half
days later that the reinforcements got to them. By
then they had run out of ammunition, they'd run out
of food, and they'd had several German
counterattacks. Of course they were really
outnumbered. And the things looked pretty bleak
there for a while. Of course, on that day my husband
was shot through the leg, but fortunately it
didn't hit the bone. And when he established his
command post, he was inside of this open sort of a
German bunker. And there were two men, one on
either side of him, and a shell came in from, I
guess, one of the ships out in the channel, hit the
side of this rock bunker, and it killed the men on
either side of him, and he was... left in the middle
he got shrapnel in his arm and his leg and his hip
actually that day so they considered he was
wounded three times but he never left command of
the of the rangers they had one doctor who actually
in civilian life was a pediatrician but he kind of
patched him up put bandage on and he kept going so
anyway i think uh that of all the challenges that he
faced throughout his life, that was probably the
worst. And I think since he lived through that, I
kind of think the challenges that came up later, he
always could do because of having had that
experience. Do you think that the Lord changed
him? Oh, I do. In fact, he said that war was such a
terrible thing. And that wasn't the end of it. He
was given command of the 109th Regiment in the 28th
Division. on the 8th of December, I believe it was,
and on the 16th then, the Germans' last great
offensive was out of the bush, and it hit right
where his division was. His regiment held the
southern flank, and parts of the division were
just absolutely all but wiped out. So that was
another tough experience for him. So there's no
doubt that the war changed him more than anything.
And so when he came home, he felt so thankful just to
have survived it. But he said, if you didn't want it
to happen again, you better get to work on the home
front. And so he'd hardly bring it back. He got
home. And he'd been gone two years. And of course, I
was so glad to get him home. The War Department
turned around and had him, put him in command of a
Victor Loaning Train that had all sorts of war
souvenirs. And sent him all around the country
selling war bonds. So that kept him another, oh
let's see, that was from September until two days
before Christmas. So he got home. And then in April
he was elected mayor. We were in Brady. And so he
served as mayor for six years, three times. And he
was elected to the State Democratic Executive
Committee. And while on that, he got three plans
for the governor. He was Alan Shivers at the time.
And so in 1955, The land commissioner had been, he
was serving, I think he'd been elected to his ninth
term. He was head of the whole messianic
organization in the state of Texas. Most
respected person. But he saw an opportunity to
make some money, but it was crooked. He ended up in
prison. And he could tell what he was being caught
up with. And so he just said he, for personal
reasons, he wasn't going to serve that term that
he'd been elected to. So that meant that the
governor had to appoint somebody. So the governor
appointed Earl as land commissioner. Mitch was
the general land officer for this property. That
was a big job, and things were in such a glorious
mess.
But he waded into that and straightened it out, ran
for re-election, got re-elected. And in the
middle of his second term, the board of directors
that was called in at A&M came and wanted him to come
here as vice president, actually, but with the
understanding that he was to run this campus. And
then the following year, he was made president of
A&M. Of course, many, many things happened to
change the face of the university during his
administration.
What were some of those things that changed
Hayden? Well, at the beginning of the spring
semester of 1958, the spring he came here, And I'd
say he left in the middle of his term that he'd been
elected to. We worked very hard to get him
re-elected at campaign headquarters in our home
in Austin. And, like I say, uh, but when the NM
wanted to come here, that was it. Uh, at the time we
got here, there were less than 7,000 students. I
think there'd been a little more than 7,000 in the
fall, the start of the fall semester. But, of
course, it dropped off a little bit at the start of
the second semester. And it was all male, all
military. The name was Agricultural Mechanical
College. And integration had not taken place. So
during his administration, girls were admitted.
That was 1963. The name change took place the same
year. And they didn't want to give up the A&M part of
the name. See, so many land grant colleges over the
nation, they took like LSU, Louisiana State. It
was a land grant college. That was a trend. But the
former students didn't want that. They wanted
that A&M . But it didn't stand for agricultural
mechanical anymore. So they just decided to call
it Texas A&M University. That was in 63.
Integration, I'm not sure what year that took
place. But it was done smooth itself. No problem.
Of course, during the 60s, There was a lot of
student unrest at other schools, but not here, not
at A&M. That was one thing that, he had been a
student, General Jim Hannigan, that he had gone to
Washington and looked for somebody that was young
enough and just retired from the Army. And the
Prima, too, I believe, pretty well kept things
under control. Although there was a group that
came over here and tried to organize, but they had
that cord so organized against it that they never
got hold of it. How did they maintain control?
Well, they just had that much discipline. It was so
much smaller then compared to now. they came over
here i guess in school where i went and tried to
organize had their literature and all that but
they didn't they didn't get the first place and
they sent them in from oh i don't know exactly how
far away but trying to organize things like that
but they just let it be known they weren't going to
stand for it the administration let it be known
In 1965, he was named head of the entire system. So
he was still president of A&M here, but head of the
whole system. And he just, he never stopped. He
just worked night and
day. And I say in 19, well, in fact, January of 1970,
he got sick. died in March, March 23rd, at the age of
59. That's young. Yeah, very
young. I don't know where we go from here. So, you
were older than he was? He was six years older than I
was. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I do know. Okay,
um... Okay, I thought your... But I never
considered it. I just, you see we had five
children, and in all these things that he did, I
know when, when the governor poached him about
being mentioned at the general I told him, I said,
you do what you want to do because my work's cut out
for me to produce the children. And he had a kind of a
system anyway. He took care of his job and
business. I took care of the house and the
children. It worked out pretty well. Was he really
active with the children or things like that?
Well, he was all so busy with his job from the time
they were seven. Our youngest was only eight
months old when he was made land commissioner. So
it pretty well fell my lot. Of course, he did, you
know, what he could.
Okay, you once said that Lyndon Johnson had
offered positions to do no matter? Yeah. Can you
tell me about that? Well, it goes way back. In 1948,
when Lyndon Johnson ran for the Senate, he asked
Earl, we were living in Brady, he asked Earl to be
his campaign manager in the district, which had 16
or 18 counties, I've forgotten. We lived close to
where his opponent lived. He said, now you can't
carry this county because you're too close to
where Colt Stevenson lived. As it turned out, the
county where we lived went for him by more votes
than he won the statewide election by. He only won
the election by 87 votes statewide, which is
unheard of. That's why they call them landslide
limits. And so after that, anything that Earl
asked of him. He always came through for him. But
when
I'm looking at the picture of Lyndon Johnson over
there, which reminds me of when we got it, they had
asked us up to the White House in 66 to a dinner for
Henry Cabot Lodge. and, uh, flight experience for
me earlier than the floor that I had. And, uh, so the
next morning after the... We stayed there in the
White House up on the third floor, and the
President's quarters were on the second floor.
And, uh, so we hadn't really had much of a chance to
visit personally with him. And the next morning,
we were gonna leave fairly soon, and, uh, the
President called and said to come down to the...
floor below, and I don't know if I should tell this
or not, he was still in bed in his pajamas and his
hair wasn't combed, he had newspapers scattered
all around him, and had three TV screens going. He
was talking to Senator Snyder, and as we walked in,
he said, you know, Senator, I can get nearly
everybody to do what I ask them to do except Earl
Rudder, and he won't do a blank thing. Because he
had offered, I can't tell you which things he had
offered Earl. Some in Washington and some were
foreign opponents. But Earl would always say, I'm
sorry Mr. President, but I have brought too many
good people to A&M to go off and leave. Go off and
leave. So he wouldn't leave here. And I guess it
wasn't the easiest thing in the world to turn a
president down, especially one like William
Johnson. Some of the things he brought at A&M, um,
women were allowed in. Yeah. Coral was made
optional. Coral was made optional. Uh-huh. The
name was changed, and there was a tremendous
population boom. Well, uh, it boomed...
more so after his death. There's all these things
that had been keeping it from going. It was about
14,000-something at the time he died, which was
double what it was when he came here. But, uh...
It's like the lady said last night at this dinner
for retiring professors. Said he's the one that
made the decision to let it go like that. And of
course, I think that's true. What did he think
about allowing women to go to A&M? Well, he was for
it, you see. But the strange thing was, the student
body, all male, was not. They wanted it just like it
was. And especially these old eggs that were
already out of A&M. Some of them never did get over
it. They thought things had just gone to pop.
Because they wanted to be just like it was when they
were students here. But actually, the student
body, when he got up before them and told them they
were going to admit the girls, they booed him. They
also burned him in effigy out in front of the house.
Didn't they also burn the dog in effigy? No. They
didn't burn the dog. They just painted the dog.
They were always painting that funny bulldog that
he named Ranger. But when the matter of admitting
the coeds came up, This dog just waddled around all
over campus. Everybody that was in school knew and
remembered him. But they painted him with a sign
that says, Maggie's Go Home. So they called the
girls Maggie instead of Abby. And they booed them
outside the house? How long did they do that? Well,
no, it was at, I guess, G. Raleigh, they had this
meeting. And so we told the student body they were
going to put the girls in their booty. And then,
see, that was before the old house burned, the one
that had first been occupied by Lawrence Sullivan
Ross. Built in 1892, and it was in January of 63 that
it burned from a faulted chimney on one of the
coldest days of the year. And, uh, anyway, uh,
I forgot what I was talking about. Uh, them doing an
effigy. Oh, burning an effigy out in front of their
house. Up in a tree I looked at at, oh, early morning
hours, and there was a fire, and I thought, what in
the world? That's what it was. What did he say about
that? Who, Earl? He didn't say much. I guess he
thought it was kind of funny, I don't know. He was
not an excitable person. I was one that was
excitable. He was pretty calm. Oh, very calm. And
about the war, I think you asked me, he didn't
really talk about it. I learned more from other
people that were in the war with him than I ever
learned from him. Did he have any memories that he
shared? No, not really. Of course, he was invited
back. It was his regiment that liberated the last
German stronghold in France, which was Comarch.
It's right on the eastern border. And so right
after he took office in Austin in 1955, the land
office, General Eisenhower was present, and he
asked him to be his representative to go to the 10th
anniversary of the liberation of Comarch. So that
was his first trip back. And then, uh, in 1954,
Collier's Magazine wanted to do an article
on a man that took his son back, and so they chose
Earl. And, uh, this fellow that was the, uh,
writer, he said he went to Washington to research
it, and Earl was the ideal one. And, uh, so, That was
unfictical. He went back. But he hesitated about
going back. He wasn't sure that he really wanted to
go.